.\" Manpage for lulzbuster.
.\" Contact noptrix@nullsecurity.net to correct errors or typos.
.TH LULZBUSTER 1 "May 2026" "lulzbuster 2.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
lulzbuster \- a very fast and smart web directory and file enumeration tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lulzbuster
.B \-s
.I url
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B lulzbuster
.B \-z
.I session-file
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B lulzbuster
.RB { \-V | \-H | \-X }

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lulzbuster
is a multithreaded, very fast and smart HTTP(S) directory and file bruteforcer
written in C on top of libcurl.

Given a target URL and a wordlist, it enumerates valid paths by firing
concurrent HTTP requests and reporting back the responses that look like real
hits (i.e. status codes the user did not exclude).

It is aimed at penetration testers, bug-bounty hunters and CTF players who want
a small, fast, scriptable tool that does one thing well.

.PP
The scan flow is:
.IP \(bu 2
parse the wordlist and any user-supplied extensions (\fB\-A\fR) into a flat
list of attack URLs;
.IP \(bu 2
fire a handful of probes against random URL shapes to detect a wildcard 200
("everything answers OK") and capture its (code, size) fingerprint;
.IP \(bu 2
spin up
.I N
worker threads (\fB\-t\fR) that share a libcurl share handle for DNS, SSL
session and connection reuse;
.IP \(bu 2
run each request, parse code/size/lines/words, and emit a row to stderr
plus to any selected log files (\fB\-O\fR / \fB\-l\fR);
.IP \(bu 2
optionally recurse into hits whose URL ends with '/' (\fB\-d\fR);
.IP \(bu 2
on Ctrl+C, SIGTERM, or a global timeout (\fB\-T\fR) write a per-target
session file so the scan can be resumed with \fB\-z\fR.

.PP
Two modes of operation are worth calling out:
.TP
.B Default mode
Reports every response whose status code is not in the exclude list (\fB\-x\fR).
Fast, but noisy on sites that return 200 to everything.
.TP
.B Smart mode (\fB\-S\fR)
Uses the wildcard fingerprint plus a (code, size_bucket) clustering table
(\fB\-K\fR) to suppress hits that look like wildcard noise. Slower because
of the extra bookkeeping, but the output is far more actionable.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS Target
.TP
.BI \-s " url"
Target start URL. Required for any real scan. Must be a full
\fIhttp://\fR or \fIhttps://\fR URL.

.SS HTTP
.TP
.BI \-h " method"
HTTP request method (default: \fBGET\fR). Supported:
\fBHEAD\fR, \fBGET\fR, \fBPOST\fR, \fBPUT\fR, \fBDELETE\fR, \fBOPTIONS\fR.
Pass \fB?\fR to list them and exit.
.TP
.BI \-x " codes"
Comma-separated list of HTTP status codes to exclude from the hit table
(default: \fB400,404,500,501,502,503\fR). Use this to surface codes the
default ignores, e.g. \fB\-x 400\fR alone keeps every other response.
.TP
.B \-f
Follow HTTP redirects. Hint: appending '/' via \fB\-A '/'\fR is usually
preferable to \fB\-f\fR because it avoids a second round-trip per word.
.TP
.BI \-F " num"
Maximum number of redirects to follow (default: 0; \-1 = unlimited; only
used together with \fB\-f\fR).
.TP
.BI \-u " ua"
User-agent string (default: built-in Windows Edge).
.TP
.B \-U
Pick a random user-agent from the built-in list per request. Mutually
exclusive with \fB\-u\fR. See \fB\-X\fR to print the list.
.TP
.BI \-c " header"
Custom HTTP header(s), e.g. \fB\-c 'Cookie: session=abc'\fR. Currently
one \fB\-c\fR per scan; multiple headers go in the same string separated
by CRLF if your shell can quote it.
.TP
.BI \-a " user:pass"
HTTP authentication credentials. lulzbuster sends \fBCURLAUTH_ANY\fR, so
auth only fires once a 401 challenge comes back.
.TP
.B \-r
Auto-update the Referer header to the previous URL (curl's
\fBCURLOPT_AUTOREFERER\fR). Only effective alongside \fB\-f\fR since
Referer is set by curl when following a redirect.
.TP
.BI \-j " ver"
HTTP version: \fB1.0\fR, \fB1.1\fR, \fB2.0\fR, \fB3.0\fR. Default is curl's
default. \fB?\fR lists them.

.SS TLS
.TP
.B \-i
Insecure mode \(em skip server certificate and hostname verification.
Useful against self-signed staging environments.
.TP
.BI \-E " file"
Client certificate file (PEM) for mTLS-protected targets.
.TP
.BI \-y " file"
Client key file (PEM).
.TP
.BI \-Y " pass"
Passphrase for an encrypted client key.

.SS Timeouts
.TP
.BI \-D " sec"
Per-request delay (default: 0). Use to be polite or evade rate-limits.
.TP
.BI \-C " sec"
Connect timeout (default: 10).
.TP
.BI \-R " sec"
Request (read) timeout (default: 30).
.TP
.BI \-T " sec"
Global wall-clock timeout. When it fires, lulzbuster behaves like the user
hit Ctrl+C: in-flight requests finish, partial stats are printed, the
session is saved, and the process exits.

.SS Tuning
.TP
.BI \-t " num"
Worker thread count (default: 30, max: implementation-defined).
.TP
.BI \-g " num"
Connection cache size for libcurl (default: 30). Should match \fB\-t\fR
for steady-state scans \(em smaller values cause connection churn.

.SS Wordlist
.TP
.BI \-w " file"
Wordlist file. Default:
.I /usr/local/share/lulzbuster/lists/medium.txt
when installed system-wide.
.TP
.BI \-A " list"
Comma-separated list of extensions to append to each word, e.g.
\fB\-A '/,.php,.bak'\fR. The bare word is also probed in addition to each
extension, so \fB\-A '.php'\fR tests both \fB/foo\fR and \fB/foo.php\fR.

.SS Proxy
.TP
.BI \-p " url"
Proxy address, format: \fB<scheme>://<host>:<port>\fR. Supported schemes:
\fBhttp\fR, \fBhttps\fR, \fBsocks4\fR, \fBsocks4a\fR, \fBsocks5\fR,
\fBsocks5h\fR. \fB?\fR lists them.
.TP
.BI \-P " user:pass"
Proxy authentication credentials.

.SS Body filter
.TP
.BI \-m " size"
Skip hits whose body is smaller than \fIsize\fR bytes. Suffixes
\fBK\fR, \fBM\fR, \fBG\fR are accepted (e.g. \fB\-m 10K\fR).
.TP
.BI \-M " size"
Skip hits whose body is bigger than \fIsize\fR bytes. Same suffix syntax
as \fB\-m\fR.
.TP
.BI \-b " regex"
Keep only hits whose response body matches the given POSIX extended
regex, e.g. \fB\-b 'admin|login'\fR. Complements
.BR \-x ", " \-m " and " \-M
for noisy targets where the status code and body size alone are not
discriminating (CMS soft-404s, single-page apps, etc.). The regex is
evaluated against the first \(~1 MiB of body.
.TP
.BI \-B " regex"
Drop hits whose response body matches the given POSIX extended regex,
e.g. \fB\-B 'page not found'\fR. The hit is filtered out before
\fB\-S\fR cluster bookkeeping, so suppression thresholds are not
polluted by content-filtered noise. Same buffering rules as \fB\-b\fR.

.SS Smart mode
.TP
.B \-S
Enable smart mode: wildcard-fingerprint suppression plus
(code, size_bucket) cluster suppression. Recommended for any target you
do not already know is wildcard-clean.
.TP
.BI \-K " num"
Cluster threshold for smart mode (default: 8). After
.I num
hits with the same (code, size_bucket) tuple, further matches in that
cluster are suppressed as wildcard noise.

.SS Recursion
.TP
.BI \-d " depth"
Maximum recursion depth (default: 0 = no recursion). lulzbuster recurses
into hits whose URL ends with '/' and returned one of
\fB200, 301, 302, 401, 403\fR.
.TP
.BI \-e " list"
Comma-separated list of substrings; URLs matching any are excluded from
recursion (e.g. \fB\-e '/admin/,logout'\fR). The hit itself is still
reported, only the descent is skipped.

.SS Output
.TP
.BI \-l " file"
Log hits to a file. With a single \fB\-O\fR format the path is used
verbatim; with multiple formats the path is treated as a stem and
\fB.<ext>\fR is appended per format. Without \fB\-O\fR, \fB\-l\fR
implies the default \fBlog\fR (text) format.
.TP
.BI \-O " formats"
Opt-in logging plus format selection. Accepts \fBlog\fR, \fBcsv\fR,
\fBjsonl\fR, \fBall\fR, or a comma-list (e.g. \fB\-O log,jsonl\fR).
Without \fB\-l\fR, each format gets an auto-derived filename based on
the start URL (e.g. \fIhttps-www-example-com.csv\fR).
.TP
.B \-N
Disable colored output on stderr. Also auto-disabled when stderr is
not a TTY or when the
.B NO_COLOR
environment variable is set. Logfiles are always plain text regardless
of this flag.

.SS Other
.TP
.BI \-n " list"
Nameservers (default:
.IR 1.1.1.1,8.8.8.8,208.67.222.222 ).
Comma-separated.
.TP
.BI \-z " file"
Resume from a previously written session file. The session captures
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-w\fR, \fB\-A\fR, \fB\-S\fR/\fB\-K\fR, \fB\-d\fR/\fB\-e\fR
and the word offset reached at interrupt time. Wordlist mtime/size are
verified to refuse mismatched resumes.

.SS Misc
.TP
.B \-X
Print the built-in user-agent list and exit.
.TP
.B \-V
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.B \-H
Print the help screen and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Plain scan against a target with the default wordlist:
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ lulzbuster -s https://example.com/
.RE
.fi
.PP
Smart-mode scan with PHP/HTML extensions, recursion two levels deep, and
multi-format logging:
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ lulzbuster -s https://target/ -w lists/big.txt \\
             -A '.php,.html,/' -S -d 2 -O all
.RE
.fi
.PP
Polite scan via a SOCKS5 proxy with a 200ms delay:
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ lulzbuster -s http://intranet.local/ -t 5 -D 1 \\
             -p socks5h://127.0.0.1:9050
.RE
.fi
.PP
Resume an interrupted scan:
.PP
.nf
.RS
$ lulzbuster -z https-target-com.session
.RE
.fi

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/local/share/lulzbuster/lists/
Bundled wordlists (\fIsmall.txt\fR, \fImedium.txt\fR, \fIbig.txt\fR).
The default
.B \-w
points to
.IR medium.txt .
.TP
.IB <stem> .session
Per-target session file written on interrupt, where
.I <stem>
is derived from the start URL (e.g.
.IR https-example-com.session ).
The path is also printed at exit time.
.TP
.IB <stem> .{log,csv,jsonl}
Auto-derived hit log files when
.B \-O
is used without
.BR \-l .

.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGINT
Ctrl+C. Triggers a graceful exit: in-flight requests are allowed to finish,
partial stats are printed, the session file is written, and the process
exits with success status.
.TP
.B SIGTERM
Polite kill(1). Same handler as
.BR SIGINT .
.TP
.B SIGALRM
Internally raised when
.B \-T
fires. Same effect as
.BR SIGINT .

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
If set (any value), ANSI color escapes are not emitted. Equivalent to
passing
.BR \-N .

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Scan completed (with or without hits) or was interrupted gracefully.
.TP
.B 1
Fatal error during startup, argument parsing, or unrecoverable HTTP/system
error mid-run.

.SH NOTES
.IP \(bu 2
HTTP/2 multiplexing is not used \(em each worker thread holds its own easy
handle. Connection reuse across threads still works via libcurl's share
handle.
.IP \(bu 2
Hit clustering (\fB\-S\fR) is order-sensitive: which 8 hits in a cluster
are printed before suppression depends on worker scheduling. The total
"hits printed / hits suppressed" stats are deterministic.
.IP \(bu 2
The session-file format carries a version key (\fBSESSION_VERSION\fR) and
mismatched resumes are refused with an error.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs, crashes, false-positives, regressions or general feedback to
.MT noptrix@nullsecurity.net
noptrix@nullsecurity.net
.ME .
Please include the full command line, the
.B \-V
output, and a short description of the target environment when filing.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Levon 'noptrix' Kayan
.MT <noptrix@nullsecurity.net>
noptrix@nullsecurity.net
.ME .

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR curl (1),

.SH COPYRIGHT
See the LICENSE file shipped with this distribution.
